############################
## 2021-03-29
############################

A 56 y/o woman is brought into ED by EMS and is minimally responsive. History is limited. The following ECG is obtained.

<<ECG.png>>

My observation: ST segment elevation in leads 2, 3, aVL, aVF, V6
                ST segment depression in V4, V5
                
Ask youself three questions:
########################################
1) What ECG abnormalities do you notice?
2) What is your differential for ST segment abnormalities to be seen?
3) What is your most likely diagnosis?
################################################################################

Greetings Everyone and welecome to the ECG workout for the week of March 29, 2021. Its Amal Mattu at the University of Maryland Medicine. Once again, welcome back. Well this week we are going to handful of cases from all over the world. Focus on one really important theme. This one case was sent to me by one of my colleagues Dr. Andy Windsor.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SLIDE1 >> 
 
   CASE#1
   
   *) Courtesy Dr. Andy Windsor
      - UMEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

He is a gradutate of our program a few years ago. And he did a ultrasound fellowship and is now our exceptional educators in our residency program. Well, he was working with our residents one day when they had a 56 year old woman who was brought to ED and was minimally responsive. 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SLIDE2 >> 
 
   CASE#1
   
   *) 56 y/o W brought to ED minimally responsive
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




####################
Key Teaching Points
####################

Onset of ECG findings can vary, but resolve with warning
  *) Early sinus tachycardia
  *) shivering artifact
  *) Bradycardia: sinus, junctional rhythms, slow atrial fibrillation
  *) J-waves/Osborn waves (positive deflections at the J point)
     *) Can cause pseudo ST segment elevation or depression
  *) Prolongation of all intervals
     -) long QT due to lenghtening of the ST segment.
  *) Ventricular Fibrillation
  *) Asystole
